Source: [Riot Patch Notes 9.15](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/patch/teamfight-tactics-patch-915-notes)

---

## Mid-Patch Updates

### **1/8/19 Bugfixes**

#### Imperial

- Imperial bonus no longer incorrectly affects items

#### Void

- Void bonus no longer incorrectly grants the pre-update armor penetration to non-Void allies

### **31/7/19 Frozen Heart and Akali bugfix, Cho'Gath and item balance**

#### Frozen Heart

- Now works as intended. Frozen Heart can only apply its debuff to any enemy once. If the Frozen Heart holder leaves and returns to an affected unit, the debuff will be refreshed not stacked.

#### Ionic Spark

- Now works against assassins as intended.

#### Thornmail

- Thornmail Damage: True ⇒ Magic

#### Akali

- Akali's ability now critically strikes according to her crit chance as intended, down from always.

#### Cho'Gath

- Cho'Gath Ability Damage: 250/500/750 ⇒ 200/400/600

#### Mordekaiser

- Let's try this one again, Mordekaiser Health: 500 ⇒ 550

---

## Systems

#### Win/Loss streaks

> We’re making win and loss streaks more beneficial.

- Win/Loss streak breakpoints: 2/5/8 ⇒ 2/4/7

#### Class Breakpoints

> We’ve added new breakpoints to a few Classes. For...reasons, just don't worry about it ok?

- Gunslinger 6 ⇒ Gunslingers have a chance to fire 3 additional attacks.
- Brawler 6 ⇒ All Brawlers gain 1200 extra HP
- Shapeshifter 6 ⇒ Shapeshifters gain 120% Bonus Health on Transform
- Blademaster 9 ⇒ Blademasters have a chance to gain 4 extra attacks. (This one is currently possible, good luck)

#### Player Damage

> We’re lowering the damage players take from minions and certain champion tier and star levels.

- Damage from Spiderlings/Elemental Golem: 2 ⇒ 1
- Tier 4 (1 Star): 3 ⇒ 2
- Tier 5 (1 Star): 4 ⇒ 3
- Tier 3 (2 Star): 4 ⇒ 3
- Tier 4 (2 Star): 5 ⇒ 4
- Tier 5 (2 Star): 6 ⇒ 5
- Tier 4 (3 Star): 7 ⇒ 6

#### Carousel Stage

- Available Units: 10 ⇒ 9

---

## Assassin

> We nerfed the Assassins in 9.14b, but we still want them to be functional in other comps (Example Wild Rengar should be viable). So, we’re putting some power into their abilities to avoid synergizing their new power with the Assassin trait bonus. We’ve also made some systemic changes to how Assassins move in combat, and how they acquire their targets. This should add deeper counter-play to Assassin positioning.

- **Assassins jump earlier and their jumps are quicker.**

- **Non-Assassin champ movement is slowed for the start of combat.**

- **Assassins can be targeted sooner.**

- Evelynn Attack Damage: 60 ⇒ 70
- Evelynn Ability Damage: 200/250/350 ⇒ 200/300/400
- Katarina Ability Targets: 3/5/7 ⇒ 4/6/8
- Rengar Attack Damage: 65 ⇒ 70
- Rengar Attack Speed: 0.55 ⇒ 0.60
- Rengar Ability Attack Speed Buff: 0.3/0.5/0.7 ⇒ 0.4/0.7/1.0

---

## Demon

> Demon is proving a little on the strong side, so we’re making adjustments to keep them in check.

- **Demon Mana Burn: 25%/50%/85% chance ⇒ 20%/35%/60% chance**

- Varus Ability Damage: 400/600/800 ⇒ 300/550/800
- Aatrox Ability Damage: 400/700/1000 ⇒ 250/600/950
- Aatrox Health: 750 ⇒ 700
- Morgana Ability Damage: 300/375/450 ⇒ 200/325/450

---

## Dragon

> Dragons being 100% magic immune really shut down a lot of options to fight them. We’re removing that, and giving them a few minor defenses back to compensate.

- **Dragon: 100% Magic Immunity ⇒ 83% Magic Immunity**

- Shyvana Armor: 20 ⇒ 30
- Aurelion Sol HP: 600 ⇒ 650
- Aurelion Sol Ability Damage: 250/450/650 ⇒ 250/500/750

---

## Elementalist

> We pulled some of the power out of the Golem, but we still think they should be powerful casters that can also fit into other comps, so we are putting some power back into their abilities.

- Lissandra Ability Damage: 150/200/250 ⇒ 150/275/400
- Brand Ability Damage: 175/325/475 ⇒ 200/375/550

---

## Guardian

> Guardians are finding a small niche, but the cost of running one early is a bit much. So we’re buffing their trait bonus, and letting the Guardian’s be a bit tankier as solo units.

- **Guardians: (2) 40 armor per stack ⇒ (2) 50 armor per stack. Guardian’s don’t buff themselves.**

- Braum Armor: 25 ⇒ 75
- Leona Armor: 55 ⇒ 100

---

## Knight

> Knights are currently a fine two-piece front line at the start, but then immediately fall off at four and six pieces. So, we're going to improve the Knight fantasy by having Knights protect your whole team. Little strikes won’t punch through these defenses!

- **Knights block 20/40/80 damage from basic attacks ⇒ Your team ignores 15/30/55 damage from all sources.**

- Darius Armor: 25 ⇒ 40
- Garen Armor: 35 ⇒ 40
- Mordekaiser Armor: 35 ⇒ 40
- Sejuani Armor: 35 ⇒ 40
- Sejuani Stun Duration: 2/3.5/5 ⇒ 2/4/6
- Kayle HP: 800 ⇒ 750
- Kayle Armor: 35 ⇒ 40

---

## Ninja

> The old Ninja bonus had some pretty big scaling issues, especially combined with the Assassin bonus. We want one Ninja on your team to be an attractive option, and if you can get all four Ninjas then they really turn on as auto-attackers and ability casters.

- **Ninja Trait Bonus: (1) 40% AD/(4) 80% AD ⇒ (1) +40 AD & AP / (4) +60 AD & AP**

- Shen Attack Speed: 0.6 ⇒ 0.7
- Zed Attack Speed: 0.6 ⇒ 0.65
- Zed Attack Damage: 60 ⇒ 65
- Kennen Ability Damage: 400/650/900 ⇒ 225/450/675
- Akali Ability Damage: 200/375/550 ⇒ 150/275/400

---

## Noble

> Noble should be a very powerful buff when you get it, but the lack of magic resistance proved that wasn’t the case, so we’re adding magic resistance to the trait. We’re also changing the attack speed and damage of many nobles so they can use their buff better, but maintain their DPS.

- **Noble: 100 Armor/+35 Life on Hit ⇒ 60 Armor & MR/+35 Life on hit**

- Vayne Attack Damage: 45 ⇒ 40
- Vayne Attack Speed: 0.65 ⇒ 0.75
- Garen Attack Damage: 55 ⇒ 50
- Garen Attack Speed: 0.55 ⇒ 0.6
- Garen Ability Damage: 450/585/720 ⇒ 360/585/810
- Garen: Fixed a bug where he wouldn’t move while spinning. Beyblade is back!

---

## Pirate

> Pirate was likely overnerfed for fear of what it could do to economy builds. We’re making it less likely to get those boots/fish bones, and adjusting some of the champions.

- **Pirate: Average Gold Per Chest: 1.6 ⇒ 1.75**

- Graves Attack Speed: 0.5 ⇒ 0.55
- Twisted Fate: Improved cast speed
- Twisted Fate Ability Damage: 100/150/200 ⇒ 150/250/350

---

## Void

> We’re reimagining the Void this patch. These are monsters that, in force, can tear through your defenses you worked so hard to set up. Be afraid of the Void!

- **Void Trait Bonus: All your units ignore 50% armor ⇒ Void units now deal True Damage.**

- Kassadin Attack Damage: 45 ⇒ 55
- Kassadin Attack Speed: 0.65 ⇒ 0.6
- Khazix Ability Damage Non-Isolated: 150/250/350 ⇒ 150/300/450
- Khazix Attack Damage: 50 ⇒ 55
- Rek’Sai Attack Damage: 40 ⇒ 50
- Rek’Sai Ability Damage: 150/250/350 ⇒ 200/350/500
- Rek’Sai Ability Heal: 300/400/500 ⇒ 150/300/450
- Cho’Gath Attack Speed: 0.55 ⇒ 0.6
- Cho’Gath Ability Damage: 200/400/600 ⇒ 250/500/750
- Cho’Gath Ability Knockup: 1.5/2/2.5 ⇒ 1.5/1.75/2

---

## Yordle

> Yordles are in a pretty good spot, but it can feel really bad when the dodge doesn’t work on things it probably should. We’re making a small adjustment, and improving the three-piece so you can throw Yordles into many other comps.

- **Yordles: (3) 25%/(6) 60% Dodge ⇒ (3) 30%/(6) 55% Dodge. Also dodges On-hit effects.**

- Lulu Armor: 25 ⇒ 20
- Veigar HP: 450 ⇒ 500
- Gnar AD: 45 ⇒ 50

---

## Other Champions

> There's a few units that we're adjusting apart from their traits: We’re making it more likely for Blitzcrank to get a 2nd grab off. Karthus needs to be just a little scarier. Yasuo isn’t quite pulling off the solo kill stunts he should be as a five-cost unit, so we’re buffing him a bit. Last but not least, Ashe & Kindred aren’t pulling their weight, so we’re giving them more damage.

- Blitzcrank Mana: 150 ⇒ 125
- Ashe AD: 60 ⇒ 65
- Kindred AD: 55 ⇒ 60
- Morgana: Ability cast time 0.35 ⇒ 0.5 sec to match all other champs
- Yasuo AD: 65 ⇒ 75
- Karthus Ability Damage: 350/600/850 ⇒ 400/700/1000
- Karthus Ability Targets: 4/7/10 ⇒ 5/9/13

---

## Items

> Locket has been redesigned. It still provides valuable shields for the start of combat, but is much less about permanent health.

- Locket gives a 200 HP Shield ⇒ Locket gives a 250 HP Shield that lasts for 4 seconds.
- Ionic Spark Damage: 200 ⇒ 150
- Hush Silence Duration: 5 seconds ⇒ 3 seconds
- Statikk Shiv Damage: 100 ⇒ 90

---

## Clarity and VFX changes

- Akali: Adjusted her ability VFX to closer resemble its real hitbox.
- Gangplank: Improved barrel placement logic, and they persist if GP dies while the fuse is lit.
- Kayle: Added cast VFX and adjusted auto-attack missile VFX.
- Kennen: Changed which animation plays while casting his ability.
- Morgana: Spell cast time increased to match most other champions.
- Sejuani: Changed which animation plays while casting her ability.
- Volibear: Changed which animation plays when he crits.---

## Bugfixes

- Rek'sai will now be healed by Redemption while burrowed.
- The Darkin item will no longer give mana to demons when equipping during combat phase.
- Vayne can no longer apply Silver Bolts onto units in Shen's Spirit Refuge.
- Frozen Heart will no longer break for a round when selling it's host unit.
- Dragon's Claw will no longer reduce damage from champion abilities that deal true damage.
- The play again button will take you back to the same queue you just played (Darkhorse MVP candidate of this patch).
- Voicechat and party will persist through multiple games.
