Source: [Riot Patch Notes 9.19](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/patch/teamfight-tactics-patch-919-notes)

---

## Mid-Patch Updates

### **9/26/2019 Bugfixes**

- Fixed a bug where a draw would cause truly heinous amounts of damage.
- Fixed a bug where players could make copies of Neeko's Help.
- Thief's Gloves can no longer "steal" Force of Nature as it was causing an assortment of issues.
- Titanic Hydra damage is now accurately 3% of Max Health.

---

## Kai'Sa

### **New Champion**

- Origin: Void
- Class: Ranger
- Class: Assassin
- Cost: 5
- Health: 700
- Armor: 20
- Attack Damage: 55
- Attack Speed: 1.25
- Starting/Total Mana: 50/125
- Ability: Killer Instinct - Kai’Sa dashes to the furthest enemy unit, shielding herself for (300/600/900) and gaining (30%/60%/90%) attack speed for 3 seconds.

---

## New Items

#### Sparring Gloves

- New Component: Gives +10% Critical Strike chance and +10% chance to Dodge chance.
- When building an item out of Sparring Gloves, the item will convert its core stats to either the offensive (20% Critical Strike chance), defensive (20% Dodge chance) option. Thief's Gloves and Mittens get both.

#### Infinity Edge

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + B.F. Sword
- Stats: 20% Critical Strike chance
- Effect: +150% Critical Strike damage

#### Repeating Crossbow

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + Recurve Bow
- Effect: On death, this jumps to an allied champion and grants an additional 20% Attack Speed & Critical Strike chance.

#### Jeweled Gauntlet

- Recipe Sparring Gloves + Needlessly Large Rod
- Effect: Your spells can crit

#### Hand of Justice

- Recipe:Sparring Gloves + Tear of the Goddess
- Effect: On round start, either gain 40% more damage or 40 life on hit.

#### Iceborn Gauntlet

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + Chain Vest
- Effect: On dodge, create an expandable zone that lowers Attack Speed by 35%.

#### Quicksilver

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + Negatron Cloak
- Effect: When CC’d, cleanse the CC. 5 second cooldown.

#### Trap Claw

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + Giant’s Belt
- Effect: On combat begin, gain a spell shield. When it breaks, stun the champion who broke the shield.

#### Thief's Gloves:

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + Sparring Gloves
- Effect: This item takes all three item slots. On round begin, copy two random items.

#### Mittens

- Recipe: Sparring Gloves + Spatula
- Effect: This champ also counts as a Yordle

#### Deathblade

- Recipe: B.F. Sword + B.F. Sword
- Effect: On a kill or assist, gain an additional 15 Attack Damage until end of combat (Stacks infinitely).

#### Giant Slayer

- Recipe: B.F. Sword + Recurve Bow
- Effect: Attacks deal an additional 5% enemy max Health as True Damage.

---

## Systems

#### Player Damage Adjustments

> With the loot changes, we’ve noticed a slight acceleration in game speed leading to players going out much quicker than we intend. So we’re lowering player damage slightly.

- 1 Star, Tier 2: 2 ⇒ 1
- 2 Star, Tier 2: 3 ⇒ 2
- 3 Star, Tier 1: 4 ⇒ 3
- 3 Star, Tier 2: 5 ⇒ 4
- 3 Star Tier 3: 6 ⇒ 5

#### Mystery Box System Adjustments

> The new system has been a positive addition to the game, but needs some fine tuning, so we’re making a few adjustments.

- Common boxes average gold value decreased.
- Uncommon boxes average gold value decreased very slightly.
- Slightly lowered the odds of Gold Boxes showing up.
- Tier 4 units can no longer drop from Uncommon boxes.
- Slightly increased the odds of Neeko’s Help dropping from all boxes

---

## Traits

#### Dragon

> Due to how easy it is to get Magic Resist and the lack of options on how to play around it, we’re lowering the strength of Dragon & Dragon’s Claw.

- Dragon (2): 83% Magic Reduction ⇒ 75% Magic Reduction

#### Glacial

> Glacial Procs are a little too powerful, so we’re making a similar consistency change that we did to Swordbreaker and applying it to Glacial.

- Glacial Stun duration: 2sec ⇒ 1.5sec
- Glacial Stun chance: 20/30/45 ⇒ 20/33/50

#### Void

> With the addition of Kai’Sa, we wanted to lower the power of the early Void. However, we still want to open up more build options and reward those who fully commit to the void.

- (2) One random void champion deals true damage this combat
- (4) All your void champions deal true damage this combat

#### Yordle

> We’ve removed RFC's ability to ignore dodges, so now it only exists on Wild. Because of that, we’re pulling a bit of power back out of Yordle. The introduction of mittens also means we’re adding a new 9 piece chase option.

- Yordle Dodge chance: 35%/60% ⇒ 30%/60%/90%

#### General Trait Adjustments

- Assassin: (3) 75% Crit damage & 10% Crit chance / (6) 150% Crit damage & 25% Crit chance / (9) 225% Crit damage & 40% Crit chance ⇒ (3) 75% Crit damage & 10% Crit chance / (6) 150% Crit damage & 20% Crit chance / (9) 225% Crit damage & 30% Crit chance
- Ninja Attack Damage and Ability Power: 50/70 ⇒ 50/80
- Noble: 25 Heal on hit ⇒ 30 Heal on hit
- Shapeshifter Bonus Health: 60%/120% ⇒ 60%/100%
- Ranger: 30%/70% ⇒ 25%/70%

---

## Champions

#### Anivia

> Anivia has been underperforming for a 5 cost, so we’re changing her identity to be a strong unit that slows the attack speed of the back line.

- Health: 700 ⇒ 750
- Attack Speed: 0.6 ⇒ 0.8
- Starting/Total Mana: 0/100 ⇒ 50/125
- Ability Targeting: Random ⇒ Furthest Target

#### Kassadin

> Kassadin has proven problematic as a dps champ who can also gain a shield and also drain mana. We’re shifting his identity into a front-line sorcerer and pulling out some of the damage.

- Attack Damage: 50 ⇒ 40
- Attack Speed: 0.6 ⇒ 0.55
- Armor: 25 ⇒ 35
- Mana Steal & Shield Power: 20/40/60 ⇒ 25/50/75

#### Miss Fortune

> We’re adjusting Miss Fortune to be a powerful auto attacker for gunslingers who rarely casts. When she does cast, it’s a big one!

- Health: 700 ⇒ 750
- Attack Speed: 0.85 ⇒ 0.95
- Mana: 0/75 ⇒ 0/150
- Ability Damage: 900/1300/1700 ⇒ 1300/2000/2700
- Ability Targeting: Current Target ⇒ Furthest Target

#### Tier 1

- Mordekaiser Mana: 0/100 ⇒ 50/150
- Mordekaiser Spell Damage: 200/325/450 ⇒ 250/500/750
- Tristana Spell Damage: 60/90/120 ⇒ 70/110/150

#### Tier 2

- Blitzcrank Health: 600 ⇒ 650
- Blitzcrank Ability Damage: 100/450/800 ⇒ 250/550/850
- Braum Mana: 0/50 ⇒ 0/75
- Rek’Sai AS: 0.65 ⇒ 0.6

#### Tier 3

- Ashe Mana: 0/100 ⇒ 0/125
- Katarina Dmg Per Tick: 40/60/80 ⇒ 45/70/95
- Shyvana Burn Damage: 250/375/500 ⇒ 200/300/400
- Veigar Spell Dmg: 300/550/800 ⇒ 350/650/950
- Vi Health: 650 ⇒ 700
- Vi Spell Damage: 250/450/650 ⇒ 300/500/700
- Volibear Health: 700 ⇒ 750
- Volibear Attack Damage: 75 ⇒ 70
- VolibearAttack Speed: 0.55 ⇒ 0.6

#### Tier 4

- Akali Attack Speed: 0.7 ⇒ 0.85
- Gnar Health: 750 ⇒ 700
- Gnar Transform Health: 300/600/900 ⇒ 250/450/650
- Jinx Attack Speed: 0.65 ⇒ 0.7
- Kindred Attack Speed: 0.65 ⇒ 0.7
- Kindred Ability Duration: 4/5/6 ⇒ 3/4/5
- Sejuani Health: 850 ⇒ 800
- Sejuani Stun Duration: 2/4/6 ⇒ 2/3.5/5

#### Tier 5

- Swain Damage per tick: 50/100/150 ⇒ 40/80/120
- Swain Heal per tick: 40/70/100 ⇒ 30/60/90
- Yasuo Health: 700 ⇒ 750

---

## Items

- Dragon’s Claw: 83% Magic Reduction ⇒ 75% Magic Reduction
- Frozen Heart: 30% Attack Speed Slow ⇒ 35% Attack Speed Slow
- Infinity Edge: +200% Critical Damage ⇒ +150% Critical Damage
- Rapidfire Cannon: No longer grants “Your attacks can’t be dodged”
- Titanic Hydra: 10% Max Health in a splash ⇒ 3% Max Health to target and adjacent enemies behind them.
- Zephyr: Now is a Unique item

---

## Bugfixes

- Gangplank and Akali now have proper move speed.
- Ranger’s Focus now properly grants 100% extra attack speed.
- Ranger’s Focus can no longer stack on itself.
- Matchmaking is less streaky.
- Shyvana’s ability tooltip no longer says she prevents healing.
- Elise Spiderlings now have the correct stats.
- The range of Lucian’s ability will always equal his attack range.
