Source: [Riot Patch Notes 9.22](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/patch/teamfight-tactics-patch-922-notes)

---

## Rise of the Elements

- [Explore](https://nexus.leagueoflegends.com/en-us/2019/10/teamfight-tactics-rise-of-the-elements/)! the new Elemental Hexes, Champions, Origins, and Classes.

- [Read this](https://nexus.leagueoflegends.com/en-us/2019/10/dev-tft-set-1-learnings/)! for our learnings from the Beta Set and our goals for the new set.

---

## General Game Changes

> We made a few systemic changes in preparation for Rise of the Elements. The board size change will allow for additional options and decisions to make the optimal formation for any given situation. Many of the other changes account for the champions and synergies in the new set.

- Board size: 3 rows of 7 hexes ⇒ 4 rows of 7 hexes.
- Player Damage: 3/3/3/4/5/6 ⇒ 2/3/4/5/6/7
- Summoned units don’t deal player damage by themselves, but they count as as if their Summoner was alive if at least 1 of them survives the round.
- Level 8 Champion drop chances per Tier level: 15/20/35/22/8 ⇒ 15/20/35/24/6
- Once you pick up a champion from the carousel, your Little Legend will no longer collide with your opponents.

---

## Ranked Changes

> New season, new rules.

- Ranked is off during patch 9.22, it will return with patch 9.23.
- Placing 4th or better will never deduct LP. Placing 5th or lower will never reward LP.
- We're slightly decreasing the number of challenger and grandmaster slots in many regions in order to make sure that the master to challenger ranks have the appropriate distribution of players.
- Korea, Vietnam, China: 300 Challengers, 700 Grand Masters.
- EU West and North America: 200 Challengers, 500 Grand Masters.
- All other regions: 50 Challengers, 100 Grand Masters.

---

## Champion Pool Changes

> We're decreasing the number of each champion in the pool. It will be much more difficult for multiple players to build similar teams. Keep an eye on what your opponents are building and find the open synergies for maximum success.

- Tier 1: 39 ⇒ 29
- Tier 2: 26 ⇒ 22
- Tier 3: 18 ⇒ 16
- Tier 4: 13 ⇒ 12
- Tier 5: 10

---

## Mana Generation

- 1 Star Champions: 6-10 Mana per attack ⇒ 8 Mana per attack
- 2 star champions: 10 Mana per attack
- 3 star champions: 10 Mana per attack ⇒ 12 Mana per attack
- Mana generated from taking damage reduced by 15%.

---

## Items

#### Recipe Changes

- Cursed Blade has been removed
- Negatron Cloak + Recurve Bow = Ruunan’s Hurricane
- Spatula + Needlessly Large Rod = Inferno’s Cinder
- Spatula + Tear of the Goddess = Mage’s Cap
- Spatula + Chain Vest = Warden’s Mail
- Spatula + Negatron Cloak = Talisman of Light
- Spatula + Sparring Gloves = Berserker’s Axe

#### Stat Changes

- All Spatula Items: No longer give double stats
- Chain Vest Armor: 20 ⇒ 25
- Deathcap Ability Power: +50% ⇒ +75%
- Dragon’s Claw Magic Reduction: 75% ⇒ 50%
- Giant’s Slayer: 5% Max Health True Damage ⇒ 8% Current Health Physical Damage
- Guardian’s Angel: 500 Health on revive ⇒ 400 Health on revive
- Hand of Justice Damage and life on hit: 40% or 40 ⇒ 50% or 50
- Ionic Spark True Damage: 125 ⇒ 100
- Luden’s Echo Damage: 180 ⇒ 150
- Luden’s Echo now always goes off once per spell cast
- Negatron Cloak Magic Resist: 20 ⇒ 25
- Recurve Bow Attack Speed: 20% ⇒ 15%
- Runaan’s Hurricane Bonus Damage: 75% ⇒ 60%
- Runaan's Hurricane now grants one extra bolt per copy on a Champion.
- Thieves Gloves: Increased Average value of items at Level 8 & 9.

---

## Item System

- Uncommon orbs average gold value reduced very slightly.
- Gold orbs average gold value reduced very slightly.
- Spatula drop rates reduced.
- Reduced the chances of getting combined items slightly.
- Dragons now drop two common orbs in addition to their carried item.
- Elder Dragon and Rift Herald drop a common and an uncommon orb in addition to their carried item.

---

## Trait UI Tooltip Update

- Champions that contribute to a Trait will have their portraits and tier information displayed inside the tooltip.
- Champions that are active on the battlefield will have their portraits highlighted

---

## Freljord Arena Skins

> Bring your armies to the frozen lands of the Freljord with three all-new arena skins.

- Find out more about the three new boards and potential future boards[here](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/features/tft-new-arena-skins)

---

## Bugfixin'

- Red Buff & Morellonomicon tooltips are now correct.
- Fixed a bug where 3-Star Tier 3 units were doing 1 more player damage than intended.
