Source: [Riot Patch Notes 9.24B](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/patch/teamfight-tactics-patch-924B-notes)

## Star Scaling

> 3-Star units have been an issue to balance because of the rigid way they scale (doubling their Health and Attack Damage). By removing that formula, we'll be able to put that power elsewhere, such as ability scaling. It’s also nice to just make star scaling have the same rule for 2-Star and 3-Star.

- 3-Star scaling Health & Attack Damage from 2-star values: 2x ⇒ 1.8x
- (Ex. Ivern HP 600/1080/2160 ⇒ 600/1080/1944)

---

## Balance

### **Inferno, Electric, and Shadow**

> We’re happy with the Inferno changes but the (6) and (9) still aren’t hitting the power level we’d like to make them competitive, so we’re giving them another bump. We also overshot the power level of Electric a bit, so we’re undoing that (though electric 2 will still be slightly above 9.23 numbers). Finally we’re happy with where Shadow has landed, but (3) Shadow is a bit too easy to put into many comps, so we’re bringing its power down.

- (3) Shadow Bonus Damage: 70% ⇒ 60%
- Electric Damage: 100/300/500 ⇒ 80/250/500
- Inferno Damage: 70%/120%/180% ⇒ 70%/140%/210%

### **Assassins**

> Phantom Dancer's rework has jumped up the Assassin power level. This was expected, but has led to a lack of counter options due to their movement pattern. Because of this, we’re going to be removing a lot of power from Assassins. They’re currently best DPS and have free backline access, which is a bit too much.

- Assassin (3): 75% Crit Damage/10% Crit Chance ⇒ 50% Crit Damage & 10% Crit Chance
- Nocturne Ability Heal: 40%/60%/80% ⇒ 40%/45%/50%
- Zed Attack Damage: 80 ⇒ 70
- Zed Armor: 30 ⇒ 25

### **Balancing the newcomers**

> Senna and Amumu are pretty close to where we want them, just need a few small adjustments.

- Senna Ability Bonus Magic Damage: 25/45/75 ⇒ 15/30/55
- Amumu Starting/Total Mana: 50/150 ⇒ 50/125
- Amumu Ability Range: 2/3/4 ⇒ 3/3/3

### **Rangers**

> We went conservative on the Ranger buffs for 9.24, as we were worried about over buffing them. We’re seeing some very light ranger play, but overall the champions still feel pretty underwhelming, especially in the Tier 4's so we’re bringing them up to more appropriate power levels.

- Ashe Ability Attack Damage (per arrow): 25%/30%/35% ⇒ 30%/35%/40%
- Twitch Attack Damage: 60 ⇒ 65
- Twitch Starting/Total Mana: 0/90 ⇒ 0/70

### **General Changes**

> We’re hitting a few of the champions that are overpowered for their cost, trait power, and general utility. Zyra’s ability is far too strong for a Tier 1. Rek’sai is a bit on the high end stat-wise while having such a powerful ability, so we’re pulling some power out from her base stats. Finally, Brand's ability is doing appropriate damage, but it's taking him too long to cast.

- Zyra Ability Damage: 70/80/90 ⇒ 55/65/75
- Rek’Sai Attack Damage: 65 ⇒ 60
- Brand Starting/Total Mana: 0/90 ⇒ 0/80

### **Hush and Swordbreaker**

> We’ve seen a large rise in Hush and Swordbreaker usage, which is causing a bit too much of the “I don’t get to play” effect that we’re not really comfortable with, so we’re lowering their proc rates.

- Hush Proc Chance: 33% ⇒ 25%
- Swordbreaker Proc Chance: 33% ⇒ 25%
