Source: [Riot Patch Notes 9.24](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/patch/teamfight-tactics-patch-924-notes)

## Soulbound Champions and Amumu

### **Soulbound**

- (2) The first Soulbound champion to die will instead continue fighting as an untargetable spirit until all other Soulbound champions are dead.

### **Senna**

- Tier 2
- Origin: Shadow
- Class: Soulbound
- Ability: Piercing Darkness. Senna fires a beam through her furthest ally, dealing 50/100/150 magic damage to enemies, and buffing allies' on-hits for 5 seconds to deal 25/45/75 magic damage from Senna.

### **Lucian**

- Tier 4
- Origin: Light
- Class: Soulbound
- Ability: The Culling. Lucian fires 10 + (2X his attacks per second) bullets in a direction over 4 seconds, each dealing 25/30/50% of his Attack Damage, applying on-hits, and dealing 40/50/100 additional magic damage.

### **Amumu**

- Tier 5
- Origin: Inferno
- Class: Warden
- Ability: Curse of the Sad Mummy - Amumu explodes in an infernal tantrum, dealing 150/250/1337 magic damage to all enemies within 2/3/4 hexes, and stunning them for 2 seconds.

---

## Interface Updates

#### Updated Level Bar

[](https://news-a.akamaihd.net/public/images/articles/2019/december/tftpn24/HUD_Shop_Changes_Loc.jpg?v=1)

- Hovering the "Buy XP" tooltip now displays how much gold you need to hit your next level.
- Now displays your current level and XP progress.
- Now displays the drop rates for different tiers based on your level.
- Flipped the locations of the buy XP and refresh buttons. Careful with this one.
- [Take this portal if you want to know more about why we made these changes](https://na.leagueoflegends.com/en/news/game-updates/features/tft-interface-update)

#### Return to Home and Draft Buttons

[](https://news-a.akamaihd.net/public/images/articles/2019/december/tftpn24/Back_To_Home.jpg?v=1)

- The "Home Button" appears when you’re scouting on other players' boards or the carousel and can be used to quickly return to your home board.
- The "Carousel Button" takes you back to the carousel when looking anywhere else during the shared draft.

---

## Traits

#### Berserker

- (6) Now additionally grants all Berserkers +25 Attack Damage.

#### Cloud

- Dodge Chance: 15/20/30% ⇒ 20/25/35%

#### Electric

- Damage: 70/250/500 ⇒ 100/300/500

#### Inferno

- Effect triggers on spell damage ⇒ Effect triggers on spell damage and critical strikes
- Bonus Damage: 80%/175%/250% over 5 seconds ⇒ 70%/120%/180% over 4 seconds
- Hexes that light on fire: 1/1/1 ⇒ 1/3/5

#### Light

- Attack Speed Bonus: 10/20/35% ⇒ 15/25/35%

#### Ocean

- Mana Regen: 15/35/60 ⇒ 15/30/60

#### Ranger

- (2) Chance to activate Attack Speed bonus: 30% ⇒ 35%
- (4) Chance to activate Attack Speed bonus: 65% ⇒ 80%
- (6) 100% chance to activate a 2.5x Attack Speed Bonus.

#### Shadow

> With the addition of Senna, we restructured the trait from 2/4 to 3/6 as she was making it too easy to access the top-end.

- Now a 3/6 bonus.
- Shadow champions gain bonus damage for 4 seconds. Resets when they participate in a takedown.
- (3) +70% damage
- (6) +140% damage and resets when any shadow champion gets a takedown.

#### Summoner

- Bonus Duration & Health: 40%/100% ⇒ 30%/120%

---

## Champions

#### Tier 1

- Ivern Shield Value: 200/350/500 ⇒ 200/300/400
- Maokai Passive Heal: 100/175/250 ⇒ 100/150/200
- Renekton Spell Healing: 150/250/350 ⇒ 150/225/300

#### Tier 2

- Neeko Attack Range: 2 ⇒ 3
- Yasuo Attack Damage: 55 ⇒ 60

#### Tier 3

- Aatrox Total Mana: 85 ⇒ 70
- Sivir Attack Damage: 50 ⇒ 55
- Soraka Attack Range: 2 ⇒ 3
- Soraka Attack Speed: 0.65 ⇒ 0.7

#### Tier 4

- Annie- Tibbers Health: 2200 ⇒ 2000
- Annie- Tibbers Armor: 40 ⇒ 30
- Brand Ability Damage: 250/325/400 ⇒ 225/300/600
- Malphite Ability Damage: 125/200/275 ⇒ 150/300/1000
- Yorick Ghoul Health: 600/1000/1400 ⇒ 600/1000/2000

#### Tier 5

- Taric Total Mana: 150 ⇒ 125
- Singed Ability Damage: 200/400/2000 ⇒150/300/2000

#### Lux Tier

> Lux should be a champion that makes you at least consider pivoting to accommodate her even if she isn't currently a part of your gameplan. These boosts should push her in that direction.

- Lux Total Mana: 85 ⇒ 80
- Lux Ability Damage: 500/800/9999 ⇒ 600/900/9999

---

## Items

- Phantom Dancer now only negates the bonus damage from critical strikes, rather than dodging the entire attack. This change will not be reflected in the PD tooltip until patch 10.1.
- Reduced the likelihood of class items appearing on Dragon.
- Re-enabled a bunch of items to drop from Dragons/Rift Herald again. Now only Thieves Gloves, Force of Nature, and Titanic Hydra will not drop.
- Giant Slayer Damage: 8% ⇒ 9%

---

## Bugfixes

- Fixed a ranked bug where getting 0LP for a fourth place finish would result in a demotion. Getting 4th place will now always grant at least 1LP.
- Fixed Taliyah’s tooltip to say she targets a random enemy, and to include the stun duration.
- Fixed a bug where every Lux except Light had 10 more base AD than intended.
- Fixed a bug where Yasuo took too long to reach his hex and resume attacking as his R ended.
- Fixed some of the loading screen tips to be more...up to date.
- Fixed a bug where Twitch’s Spray and Pray would stop working after cast if he was equipped with Runaan’s Hurricane
- Fixed Renekton’s ability tooltip to properly say it deals magic damage
- Fixed a bug where occasionally Skarner’s shield would persist across rounds
- Fixed Inferno damage zones being created when Zyra plants expire
- Fixed a bug where continuously applying Red Buff or Morellos burn for more than 10 seconds would cause the anti-healing to no longer affect the target
- Fixed a bug where you could get double the health bonus from Earth Hexes.
